hey have you ever thought about
advertising online maybe on Google or
Facebook or being but you just don't
really know what your daily budget
should be well guess what you're not
alone this is actually a very commonly
frequently asked question on how do I
calculate my daily budget and what
should it be by the way my name is
Sylvia Perez and I create content every
week on Google advertising and
pay-per-click advertising so if you're
interested in that kind of stuff go
ahead and feel free to subscribe and
check out my youtube channel if you get
some value from this video now to get
started there's really only three ways
you can calculate your budget that have
worked for me in the past and kind of
what I use as a reference going forward
everything in this video is my own
personal experience and things that I
use on a daily basis so I'm gonna go
ahead and hop into my computer and show
you three ways you can calculate your
daily budget to get started online let's
get started
all right so let's talk about how to
calculate your daily budget now first
and foremost like I said previously
there are three ways that you can
calculate your daily budget that have
really helped me in the past now let's
get started with the first one the first
point is the threshold of pain what is
the minimum amount you are willing to
spend without getting a dime back this
is like the most cut and dry and and
almost like unsexy answer but it's true
you know when it comes to pay-per-click
advertising and really anything else in
life you have to go through an initial
learning period you're gonna go through
inefficiencies you're gonna have to
figure out what works what doesn't work
so realistically you're gonna have to go
through that learning curve now this
isn't to diminish your growth potential
and say that you can't you know knock it
out of the gate and make some profit in
returns but I really want to get your
mind and set your expectations around
this is a continuous process and you
have to learn and develop so this is the
first way you can go about setting your
budget is what is that that pain
threshold for yourself and everyone is
personal depending on where you're at in
your business if you're just starting if
you've been at it for a while the cash
flow you have available but just kind of
think about what is your pain threshold
and what would be the minimum amount you
are willing to spend so that's the first
way you can go about calculating your
budget now the second way is you can use
the 100 clicks method and the 100 click
method is basically the minimum you need
to spend to receive at least a hundred
clicks a month and this method goes
based on statistical significance
and if you're not familiar with what
statistical significance is I pulled up
this definition from investopedia and
essentially it's just claiming a result
that is likely to happen again and it's
not by chance so I mean the definitions
there you can read it but basically it
just means that this result that we
received isn't just some sort of like
lucky thing and it just happened by
chance it's a result that we receive
because we have enough data to support
it and it's significant statistically
speaking
so the hundred clicks method it's very
simple if you want to go ahead and use
this all you got to do is you got to
find first and foremost the the service
product that you're looking to offer
advertised so in the case of Google will
you say Google ads we're gonna do DJ
service right so I looked up here this
is a screenshot of a Google Keyword
planner and this is the DJ service
keyword and if you see here on the top
right hand side where it says top of
page bid high highlighted in green it
says it's six dollars a click to be on
the top of the page so to do the monthly
budget calculation you're just gonna
take six dollars and you're gonna
multiply that by 100 which is the amount
of clicks we need for the month which
means our monthly budget is gonna be six
hundred dollars and then to get your
daily budget we're gonna take six
hundred dollars and we're gonna divide
that by thirty point four and that gets
us nineteen dollars and 73 cents now if
you're wondering why is it thirty point
for we do thirty point four because
that's how we calculate the averages
between months that some months have 31
days in the month others have 30 so 30
point four helps calculate those those
averages between the months so that is
the 100 clicks method it goes based on
statistical significance and the idea
behind this method is we want to get
enough clicks so that we can get enough
data in our accounts so that we can be
able to make decisions that are based in
reason and significance versus just you
know only getting ten clicks and then
making a decision and it may not be
relevant because you know there are
there are outliers in your data and if
in the case that you get one day where
you get a ton of conversions and another
day you get none
those two outliers are gonna negatively
impact your averages so by getting
enough data and using the 100 clicks
method you can
base your decisions on statistical
significance alright so then the last
point is your goal calculation and in my
opinion this is the best way to go and
this is also the most advanced way to go
in terms of budget calculation and with
this method it's the minimum amount you
need to spend to reach your goal targets
so the goal calculation is in my opinion
also what I like to call the reality
check because a lot of the times from
what I've experienced in in in my in the
past working with clients and even to
this day is they want to get certain
goals in mind right they want to get a
certain amount of customers and and all
this stuff and that's great
but they haven't really done the math
yet and seen the numbers behind it and
with the goal calculation this method to
finding out your daily budget in my
opinion is the most advanced way to go
and it's the most realistic because by
really breaking down this calculation
you're gonna have a very solid
understanding on what your objectives
need to be and the targets you need to
hit in order to make sure that you reach
your goal at the end of the month and
something to mention too by the way and
people don't want to hear this but it's
true when it comes to advertising it's
really just math I mean honestly it
comes down to math there obviously
there's a creativity element to it but
most of it is just math right if you
know your cost per clicks if you know
your conversion rates and so on and so
forth at that point it's just kind of
plug and play but let's go ahead and go
further into this goal calculation so I
can stop ranting so first and foremost
to do this calculation to take to do
this method on the goal calculation
method we need some information first
and foremost we need to know the goal we
are trying to reach second thing is we
need to know our estimated average
cost-per-click and the last the third
thing is we need to do our target
marketing conversion rate and then the
last thing is our sales closing rates so
those are the four things we need now
let's use the example going with the
example of DJ services we want to get 10
new parties per month that is our goal I
mean we get 10 new parties a month we're
crushing it so that's the goal we want
to get 10 you parties a month now that's
our goal that's the first part the
second part is we need to know our
estimated average cost per click so
going back to the Google ads example we
go to the
Google Keyword planner and according to
google keyword planner DJ service costs
six dollars a click now by the way
something to mention as well before we
kind of go down this path is if you've
already been running your campaigns for
a while that's amazing because you can
go into your campaigns and look at your
actual historical data to get your
actual average cost per click and your
actual marketing conversion rate and you
can base these things on the numbers
that you already have in place so that
way you can start to use this
calculation to see what you need to do
to reach your targets so if you have
campaigns already running you're ahead
of the game go ahead and into your
account and pull this information from
your account now if in the case that you
do not have campaigns running already
then use keyword tools to help give you
an idea of what you can expect to pay
per click so with that being said our
estimated average cost per click for DJ
service is six dollars our target
marketing conversion rate since we've
never ran any campaigns before we're
gonna say our goal is 10% and by the way
- if you have never ran a campaigns
before and you want to get an idea of a
what a realistic marketing conversion
rate is for your industry you can do a
simple google search and try to find
industry benchmarks that come out they
usually do reports and you can kind of
get an idea of what those industries are
getting as conversion rates every year
so you can base that in your target
marketing conversion rate and then the
last piece is our sales closing rate so
our sales closing rate is just basically
of all the phone calls we get what
percentage of those actually become
parties so the marketing conversion rate
is of all the people that come to our
website what percentage of those call
out to us they become phone calls they
become form submissions they reach out
to us for more information and then the
next step is our sales closing rate was
of all those people that reach out to us
that call us that fill out the form what
percentage of those actually become
customers they actually become parties
in this example of DJ services alright
so moving forward math time so first we
have to ask ourselves what is our cost
per lead our Cpl as it's otherwise known
so essentially for every 10 clicks we
get at $6 per click based on Google
Keyword planner we convert one into a
lead because we
a 10% marketing conversion rate that we
say we're gonna get so of all the people
that come to our website we get 10
clicks only 1% of them is gonna convert
into an actual phone call or a form
submission based on our numbers so now
we just plug it in so our cost per lead
is gonna be $60 which is 10 clicks
because again we need 10 clicks to get 1
lead so 10 times 6 is 60 so that's $60
divided by 1 because we're only getting
one lead because when they have a 10%
marketing conversion rate meaning our
cost per lead comes out to $60 so now we
know our cost per lead so it's again we
need a 10 clicks to convert 1 into a
lead so those 10 clicks at that $6 cost
per click comes out to $60 we only got
one lead so our cost per lead is $60 so
now we know our cost per lead so the
second question we have to ask ourself
is what is our cost per party in this
example with DJ services if you're and
medical can be your cost per patient or
in whatever your industry might be you
can plug in your customer type right
there and this is also known as your CPA
your cost per acquisition so this is the
great metric that we all like to go by
because this is essentially how many
people are we actually bringing in
through the door now
so in the case of what is our cost per
party for every 10 leads we get and
going back to the first slide our cost
per lead is $60 so for every 10 leads we
get $60 per lead we convert one into a
party because of our going back
previously our 10% sales closing rate so
this means we're gonna get 10 phone
calls and of those 10 phone calls only
one of them is gonna come and turn into
an actual party we're gonna close one so
now we do the math to find out what our
cost per party is so our CPA is $600
because $60 per lead and we need 10
leads to get one party so that's $600
divided by one which is one party
meaning we come out to $600 per party so
now we know how much it cost us to get a
party from Google Ads in the case based
on the 10% marketing conversion rate the
$6 estimated cost
click and the 10% sales closing rate now
the final piece of the puzzle is how
much do we need to spend to reach our
goal of 10 parties per month so now that
we have all the math worked out we just
got to plug it in so our monthly budget
is gonna be $600 which is our cost per
party times 10 because we want 10
parties and then we're gonna get our
monthly budget of $6,000 a month so we
know based on the numbers that we had
previously
assuming everything stays consistent and
all variables stay the same which they
never do by the way everything is always
moving and fluctuating but this gives
you at least a better understanding of
how to go to market and how to approach
your strategy so you have a much better
game plan in place than just kind of you
know hoping and wishing that you get the
amount of customers you want so this
comes out to $6,000 for our monthly
budget now the daily budget breakdown is
going to be $6,000 divided by 30.4
meaning our daily budget is 197 dollars
and 37 cents that we need to spend every
single day to reach our target
a target of 10 parties per month at the
end of the month so that is it for this
video let me know if that made sense if
I can explain it better and if you have
any questions feel free to let me know
I'm definitely open to answering all
your questions something to mention is
well to in the spirit of this video is
there are two elements there that really
are like that low-hanging fruit that you
can really work on to really reduce your
cost per acquisition your cost per party
in this example is one is that target
marketing conversion rate if you can get
more leads to your website to convert
better well that's going to produce your
cost per acquisition your cost per lead
and all that all those good stuff the
other side of it too is is your sales
closing rate if you train your sales
team or whoever's answering the phone to
convert more of those leads into sales
well that's also going to go ahead and
reduce your cost per acquisition and the
other thing to mention as well is your
cost per click so the beautiful thing
about Google Ads and these advertising
platforms is they reward you for
relevance they reward you by providing
users with
quality information and they do that in
the sense of quality score or relevance
for Facebook and the by providing you
with relevancy they allow you to be on
the top of the page for less per click
so by improving your quality scores you
can actually reduce your cost per clicks
so essentially you want to make sure
you're working on your marketing
conversion rate you want to make sure
your you have relevant ads so you can
reduce your cost per click as much as
possible and the last part of the
equation is you want to make sure you're
training your sales team or whoever it
is that handles these leads to be
following up on time in a timely manner
so you can close these leads as
efficiently as possible so those are all
the the variables to take into
consideration to reduce that cost per
acquisition number for you all right so
that's gonna be it for this video I hope
you got tremendous value from this if
you did go ahead and make sure to
subscribe to the channel for weekly PPC
and Google Ads content and until next
time take care
[Music]